[MUSIC]
We discussed linear regression
briefly in the previous course.
And we fit a few models with
non-informative priors.
Here, we'll provide a brief review,
demonstrate fitting linear
regression models in jags.
And discuss a few practical skills that
are helpful when fitting linear models in
general.
This is not meant to be a comprehensive
treatment of linear models,
which you can find in numerous courses and
textbooks.
Linear regression is perhaps
the simplest way to relate
a continuous response variable to
multiple explanatory variables.
This may arise from observing
several variables together and
investigating which variables
correlate with the response variable.
Or it could arise from conducting
an experiment, where we carefully assign
values of explanatory variables
to randomly selected subjects.
And try to establish a cause and
effect relationship.
A linear regression model has
the following form,the response y for
observation i,will be equal to this
linear form of the other variable.
We have an intercept, beta not, and
then a coefficient beta 1 for
the first x variable.
And so forth for up to k variables.
So this would be the ith value of xk.
This describes the mean, and
then we would also add an error,
individual term for observation I.
We would assume that the Epsilons
are IID from a normal distribution means
0 variance sigma squared for
observations 1 up to n.
Equivalently we can write this model for
y, i directly as y,
i given all of the x values for
individual i.
All of the Beta coefficients and
sigma squared would be
independently distributed,
not identically distributed, because
the mean changes for each observation.
But independent from
a normal with the same mean.
Beta 0 + beta 1 x1i up for
all of our k variables.
And constant variance sigma squared.
Again, k is the number
of predictor variables.
This yields the following
graphical model structure.
We'll start with a plate for
our All of our different y variables,
so yi, which is random and observed.
Or i = 1 up to n.
We also observe the x variables.
So we have X1i, X2i,
all the way up to Xki.
And I'm going to draw squares
around these ones instead
of circles to indicate that
they are not random variables.
We're always conditioning on the Xs.
So they'll just be constants.
Of course, the yi's depend
on the values of the x's and
the yi's will also depend on
the values of these parameters.
So, we have beta not,
beta one, up to beta k.
And of course, sigma squared.
And the yi's depend on all of these.
So this would be the graphical
model representation.
The terms of a linear model
are always linearly related
because of the structure of the model.
But the model does not have to be linear
necessarily in the xy relationship.
For example, it may be that y is related
linearly to x squared instead of x.
Hence we could transform the x and
y variables to get new x's and
new y's but
we would still have a linear model.
However, in that case,
if we transform the variables,
we must be careful about how this changes
the final interpretation of the results.
The basic interpretation of
the beta coefficients is this.
While holding all other x
variables constant, if x1,
for example, increases by one,
then the mean of y is expected
to increase by beta one.
That is beta 1 describes
how the mean of y changes
with changes in x1, while accounting for
all the other x variables.
That's true for all of the x variables.
Note that we're going to assume that
the ys are independent of each other,
given the xs.
And that they have the same variance.
These are strong assumptions
that are not always met.
And there are many statistical
models to address that.
We'll look at some hierarchical
methods in the coming lessons.
Of course, we need to complete
the model with prior distributions.
So we might say beta 0
comes from its prior.
Beta 1 would come from its prior,
and so forth for all the betas.
And sigma squared would
come from its prior.
The most common choice for prior on
the betas, is a normal distribution.
Or we can do a multivariate normal for
all of the betas at once.
This is conditionally conjugate and
allows us to do Gibbs sampling.
If we want to be non informative,
we can choose normal priors
with very large variance.
Which are practically flat for
realistic values of beta.
The non-informative priors used in
the last class are equivalent to
using normal priors
with infinite variance.
We can also use the conditionally
conjugate inverse gamma prior for
sigma squared that we're familiar with.
Another common prior for
the betas is double exponential,
or the Laplace prior, or
Laplace distribution.
The Laplace prior has this density.
One half e to the negative,
absolute value of beta.
And the density looks like this.
It's called double exponential
because it looks like the exponential
distribution except it's been
reflected over the y axis.
It has a sharp peak at x equals 0,
or beta equals 0 in this case,
which can be useful if we want to do
variable selection among our x's.
Because it'll favor values in your 0 for
these betas.
This is related to the popular
regression technique known as the LASSO.
[MUSIC]